how are y'all doing today um did any of
you guys actually hear of the program
called achievement account achievement
counts you got um most recent graduates
anybody you've most recent high school
grads raise your hands a ninth-grade did
somebody come to your classroom and talk
to you about your four years in school
and what that means for your future no
well a volunteers put in every ninth
grade class now in the state of Maryland
and Business Roundtable for education
and achievement counts does that so I
help do that and speak to those kids and
I actually have a handout that we
actually use for that course that I'm
going to give to you guys and even some
just other tools and tips that I use
they're actually applies more to you
guys than it does for them I want to
talk to you guys not only about
budgeting and giving you guys some
examples about budgets for not just
while you're in school but also when you
get out of school cuz there's some
things that you really need to give a
heads up on what's going to happen when
you get out and how he needs a budget
when you get those first paychecks when
you get a job in a career so I actually
even have my own personal budget that
I'm going to share with you guys to show
you what what it takes to kind of even
just have a house and live in the state
of Maryland if you plan on staying here
and have kids and be married and all
that other thing so we're going to go
through that and um also some just tips
of while you're in school and how to
maybe stay ahead of yourself avoid some
financial pitfalls and stuff like that
first I want to share a little clip with
you guys and I think it's going to get
you may be acclimated to the whole
budget process and maybe even a little
you know exciting to get a taste of what
we're going to be talking about
suppose you graduate from high school
let's say you just slide by all right
now you've got a fine job now what kind
of salary do you expect for a regular
person salvia sit up I'm gonna give you
three hundred dollars a week yesterday
$300 week twelve hundred dollars a month
alright three how to eat yes you will
and I will take three hundred and thirty
dollars for taxes because see the
government comes for the regular people
how much how much does that leave you
with all right now you've got have in
the bottom because you are not going to
live here an apartment in men were you
at least four hundred dollars a month
unlimited
I live in New Jersey you gotta have a
car all right
was it legally turnabout so you go from
there is a problem you haven't eaten yet
I give up Bologna in Syria so than
anything I need plus 2000 for a month
you plan out a girlfriend assure so
that's just kind of a little bit of a
taste of really what happens what do we
get out we not maybe thinking about
everything that we need to pay for our
everything that it costs to live so
taking off on the keynote speakers
speech this morning or I even want to
say gosh enthusiastic leadership this
morning think big dream big now but
financially how do we do that and how do
we make it actually happen for us um he
talked about you know using and being
yourself well it's not just being
yourself but the heart inside of you and
the ethics that have been instilled in
you need to sit on your shoulder like
you know in the cartoon characters when
you have the little devil and you have
the little angel we got to make sure we
listen to maybe to that little angel a
little bit more when they're saying then
and now go to target don't go to the
limited then to now go to the gym at the
college don't go to the health club so
you think things like that we need to
start paying attention and perking up
and thinking about so that we can really
make our futures as big as we want them
to pay so a little bit of needs versus
wants kind of criteria for the college
student and like I mentioned before
clothing I'm not in college anymore I
have a career but you know what those
jeans at target they're still pretty
darn good so I'll wear those instead of
having to pay 100 200 dollars for you
know boutique pair of jeans um think
about that sort of thing do you need a
car on campus can you really get by
without having the car gas prices these
days a college student budget I just
don't even imagine how can really work
that much if you're driving around so i
went to salisbury of course all of our
friends want it to drive down to the
beach to 30 minute drive but nowadays
that cost the gas to get to and from the
beach going out to eat college thinking
about bar hopping and you want to be
cool and maybe impress your friends put
down your credit card and pay for
everybody's drinks well as your drink
youth into the night that could be a
hundred dollar two-hundred-dollar tab
quickly um pedicures manicures maybe
start doing that kind of thing on your
own just like I said the health club
most schools have their own you know
gyms and have the ability to have free
access to the swimming pool and stuff
like that the less wants that you have
equal greater savings for yourself and
for your future not saying that if you
do something really well you get you
nail a test you get a great job you get
to do a great job in a class maybe
reward yourself with a little something
but make sure you also kind of have that
in mind and give you an allowance for
giving yourself an allowance for that
sort of thing when you're looking to buy
books by used and sell them back at the
end of the year I'm sure you guys have
already heard all of this but it really
works um school supplies dollar store
has stuff walmart has a lot of stuff at
great prices um be mindful that the
bookstore on campus can be pretty
expensive and it might not be in your
budget so you get that stuff that's got
your school emblem on it or whatever
it's not really necessary and you have
to watch it
sometimes they'll even let you slide
your student ID card in there and you
can get what you want you're not
thinking that you might be billed for
that later groceries you're going to go
out and get groceries are you going to
be on a meal plan you really have to
gauge what you think is going to be
cheaper for you based on what you use
and utilize each semester I also want to
bring up student loan interest in under
the previous speaker just spoke about
that you really do want to pay your
student loan interest monthly while
you're in school if you can that
interest just keeps building more
interest upon it until you get out if
you don't pay it usually it's around 50
bucks a month or something like that
build it into your budget see what you
can afford to pay some of it because it
can build up and make you you know pay
more on it later you also want to start
thinking about residents I know my first
year at Salisbury I lived on campus and
then I decided it wasn't cool anymore to
live on campus and I went off campus and
then I realized i had to pay gas and
electric and cable and groceries and the
expense was so much greater so really
take a look at that if you're trying to
decide is that really going to be the
best decision for you and will it work
and fit into your lifestyle loans do you
have car loans do you have credit card
debt stuff like that you want to look at
that and see how you can maybe minimize
that as you can as you get credit cards
those credit card vendors they're going
to be sitting on campus just waiting to
pounce on you guys I mean they sit there
with their tables and there's probably
they're going to be all around the
dining hall and all that stuff and they
they prey on college students and older
people because they know that you guys
most likely do not understand interest
rates and the fees that get tacked along
with it and I mean just honestly walk by
and look at them like you guys are just
trying to get out right get me however
somebody in the last session brought up
a really good point that you yes you do
need to build credit but that doesn't
mean you need to build credit debt when
you build credit
you want to take a look at the options
you have look at your lowest interest
rate cards because if there is an
emergency and you do need to use the
credit card and you can't pay at the
next month you at least have the peace
of mind to know that you're using the
least amount of debt that you can and
the lowest interest rate some credit
cards if you've had one for years that
you maybe got one as a senior in high
school now you're in your third year in
college and you still had that same card
and all of a sudden they keep slowly
creeping up that interest rate on you
like it may have started out at nine
point nine nine percent but now it's
like 14.99 or 15.99 pick up the phone
and call them you call them you tell
them I have been a member of this card
for 34 years I would like to ask if i
can get a reduction to my interest rate
it doesn't hurt to ask half the time
they'll say yes half the time they'll
say no they'll put you on hold a bunch
of times because they're going to get
this manager and that manager and
they're going to look at your account
and this and that push them say okay
well I don't really need to use your
card all you say that card was like
discover I'm going to use my Visa card
instead because they are having me at so
you're trying to get down to Lake 10.99
they do have me at 10.99 percent so I'll
just put your card in the back of my
drawer instead of my purse they really
like that big usually will put you on
hold again and maybe come back with
maybe something else so don't be afraid
to call them and try to work those
little deals out helps yourself
especially right now if you already do
have debt or you know that little devil
on your shoulder has been saying come on
let's go you know go out to eat at this
fancy place or let's go get these
clothes let's do this let's do that
let's go you know show our friends a
good time go to the golf course or
something it can build up and you don't
realize it and then the next thing you
know you had a zero balance each month
and now it's three thousand dollars and
and then once it's 3,000
dollars where do you stop do you just
keep going so it will build and then it
causes you problems later so think about
those little tips as for budgeting
yourself while you're in school no your
incoming where your resources are do you
know some sort of allowance from your
parents do you have a scholarship or a
loan that gives you amount you get like
a check by semester that sort of thing
goes into your budget that goes as your
income then you need to lay out and I
also point out on here there's a good
website because I realized a lot of
people don't even know how to balance
their checkbook appropriately in fact I
am do some audit review review for
housing authorities and just this week I
was looking and reviewing some files and
I saw this person had um nine hundred
dollars in one year a bounced check in
SF late fees all that stuff with a bank
nine hundred dollars because you've kept
bouncing your checks was it worth
bouncing the check to now oh the bank
nine hundred dollars not at all is it
more worth it to spend just a few
minutes of your time each month to be
sure that what your account balances and
that you have plenty of money don't go
to the ATM and check balance that's not
balancing your checkbook in fact when
you do that that's not the balance in
your account the balance that's in your
account is the activity that you've
actually know you've done checks don't
always run through right away even
transactions at restaurants or stores do
not go through right away sometimes they
take two or three days so when you go to
the ATM and you check that balance
that's not your balance when you go
online and check your bank balance
that's not your balance your balance is
what you've spent so when you go to a
store and they ask you would you like
the receipt in your hand or in the bag
your response should be in your hands
put it in your wallet treat it like a
dollar bill get home and put it in your
checkbook because
you can forget those things they go in
the bag you take what you want out of
the bag you crumble up the bag you throw
it in the trash Nev forgot that fifty
dollars that really came out of your
account then you go to the ATM later
that day that's fifty dollars still
showing up there and you don't you kind
of lost yourself and where you've been
spending and what you've done so there
is a free I use quicken at home however
it is a paid for software it's really
great because it helps you budget and
stuff too they do have a free version of
quicken it's online and the website is
here this slide will be like they said
on CSB's website so you can also get it
at that point but it's at quickens aah
intuit com but they have a personal free
software that you can do checkbook
balancing online um use it as a tool and
then I also have another website here
mapping your future or money / checkbook
um you can go to just quickened intuit
com and then it will put you to mint
online I don't know that's how I have
always gone to it but I don't know you
may be able to get to it just meant
calculator tool there I just found this
and the macp a pointed me in the
direction of this it's great it this
website is put on by the aicpa the
American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants and they have really put
together some awesome tools for college
students and also for parents of teens
and future college students for getting
prepared for financial literacy and they
also have a college student budget
calculator on there I checked it out
it's really cool the website is 360
financial literacy org tools calculators
student budget you put in all of your
your information what your income your
expenses and you can pop put together
and position your little your student
budget I've
leave the link may also be on some of
the handouts out on the table that the
MACBA has out there so like I said
before no your income what additional
funds you have from loans once you get
through your budget do you really need a
part time job you may I worked while i
was at salisbury my parents did not put
me through school they did not have the
money or the resources to do so i had a
US direct education loan which i've been
out of school now for 11 years and i
just paid it off last year and then i
also had some scholarship money so make
sure if you know you need to pay stuff I
knew I wanted to pay that interest while
i was in school so i had a part-time job
i was a cocktail waitress anybody been
to phagors island in Ocean City I worked
at phagors island for a few years and I
worked somewhere else in Salisbury as a
waitress and then your expenses again
know what your budget is for your school
your books spoon groceries your living
expenses especially if you're off campus
you need to know what all of those
utilities are your cell phone do you
really need the latest and greatest
Android or I eat iPhone or can you get
by like a cheaper found but also look at
all the prices the monthly prices are
you texting a lot but you don't have um
unlimited text plan and you end up
getting tacked on extra fees you need to
start looking at stuff like that if you
live off campus do you have a separate
phone bill cable bill internet bill and
you may be paying more than if you can
go somewhere and get it all bundled
together um I just last year bundled all
of my home phone cell phone cable
internet all together and i realized i'm
saving sixty dollars a month by bundling
it but it doesn't always work that well
that way for everybody so you have to
look at it and investigating things ways
that you can save clothing we talked
about cars and gas
smell care that's just all of the
regular things you need don't forget
those in your budget don't forget your
toilet paper yes you need to eat but you
also need toilet paper and paper towels
and a hairbrush and you know all of that
stuff deodorant please you're the other
everybody else in school will not like
you if you don't use that so make sure
you build that into your budget like
your budget can't just be groceries on a
monthly basis but are you also going to
target or walmart on monthly basis and
buying those other little things so why
are we budgeting why are we concerned
about all of these things there's some
statistics that I don't know if they'll
shock you or if you guys have actually
already heard eighty-five percent of the
2011 college grads will be forced to
move back in with their parents with an
average debt of 27 thousand dollars with
no job right away usually approximately
two-thirds of all college students
graduate with student loans that was
including myself thirty-six percent of
full-time students who entered into
college in 2001 received a bachelor's
degree in four years so less than half
the students who are going in school are
getting out in four years with their
just their bachelors that is so
expensive so again listen to the little
angel on your shoulder who is telling
you it's still going out tonight maybe
stay in and study it's gonna be cheaper
that way you get done in your four years
you have less debt coming out according
to economic policy institute
unemployment rate for college grads
younger than 25 years old was nine point
three percent in 2010 I'm going to ask
Chris and another one of our leaders
from cfb to go ahead and hand out I have
some handouts for you guys to look at
we're going to go over those in a minute
but it does have some information that
goes along with employment and
unemployment out of school approximately
fourteen percent of all students to
graduate with student loan debt end up
defaulting on their loans
within three years that's a u.s. usually
federal loan don't default on it it's
going to have the lowest interest rate
that you probably have on any loans that
you end up having yeah I'm sorry what
does default mean default means that
you're not paying your loan when you're
supposed to they're coming to you you're
getting your bills your monthly bill to
pay your loan and you're just ignoring
it not paying it that goes on your
credit report and it's bad news for you
later in life a profit approximately
fourteen percent of students that
graduate with student loan debt oh I
just read that one I'm sorry college
years financial tips so here are some
more little tips pay the interest on
your student loan monthly we talked
about that if you need a credit card
just use the one yes you can build your
credit you can have more than one stick
them away in a file somewhere I actually
do that still I keep one in my wallet
the one with the very lowest interest
rate which I haggle to get the rest go
in a file cabinet I don't use them I
don't touch them sometimes they get
closed because of inactivity oh well I
know my dad's all in one place it's not
scattered around and I can keep track of
it be aware teaser rates and offers
they're going to come to you and say 0 0
person or one point nine percent look at
the fine print after three months after
six months nine months might go up to up
to twenty percent don't exceed your
credit limit that goes on to your credit
report and it can kill you later review
statements carefully and monthly this is
very important I know a lot of people
don't get the paper statement in the
mail anymore so you might not be as
quick and often too
your statement online please do it I am
very very tight with my credit cards and
everything i have just I had a discover
card it's closed now the card was in my
wallet I received a call in 2009 from
discover saying that someone was calling
them trying to pretend they were me on
the phone to get a cash advance off of
my credit card they did not have the
right personal information so the credit
card companies didn't allow them to do
it but they called me to warn me so they
changed my account number they issued me
a new part because their first question
was is your card with you I open my
wallet is right here so someone somehow
got Mike the number got my name my
address but they didn't know my
birthdate or my little password that I
had on the card exactly a year later I
get my credit card statement in the mail
and there was that little fee you guys
seen that fee for credit protection they
charge you once a month I don't sign up
for it because I keep track of my own
stuff and they in charge me for it so I
call him up and I'm like why did I get
this fee I never accepted this
protection plan well yes miss griffis
you called last month and we changed
your password on your account your email
address on your account and um you've
said that yes you did want the
production like haha wait a minute
transfer me to the fraud department I
had not called they changed my password
to Barbie which never was my password
never what I've thought to do that um
they changed the email address and they
wouldn't tell me what it was they had to
verify that I was really me when I did
call and nothing their charges have been
made on the card but this person was
slowly trying to take over the account
until they could event
really get the car they never had my
card nothing I still to this day have no
idea where my information got to them
but they were very they didn't ever
really get my social security number
which was lucky but the card was always
in my possession it had never been
stolen and I I always keep thinking that
it was an inside job like someone it
discover because what keeps the people
that work there doing that sort of thing
so always keep your eye on your
statements because little things like
that can make you aware of something
that's happened eventually closed the
account because they sent me a new card
again a week later I got another new
card because the person called back and
changed tried to change everything again
so that's when I closed it and i keep
getting letters in the mail come back to
us no thank you so um also report lost
or stolen cards immediately used to say
keep the phone numbers for the credit
card companies like somewhere in your
house or something but now with online
you can easily get the number that you
need to report your stolen or lost card
please report them immediately the
sooner you report it the sooner that
they know to cut off any approval of
charges if you feel that planning budget
is just too time-consuming for you or
you know you're not going to do it keep
just an idea of what a monthly allowance
is for you is I was a college student
once I know these things you say you're
going to do it maybe you start doing it
and it just drops off the radar you get
busy with studying maybe you have a job
at the same time and things just get
crazy and you don't think about doing it
so just keep an open mind and be close
with your financial needs and if you
start to fall into credit problems don't
ignore them don't say oh I'll get it
fixed later go see someone because like
I said three thousand dollars in credit
card debt turns into 20 very quickly
before you know it
cut down on your once don't go to
Starbucks you know make your coffee home
little instant coffee never heard
anybody say no to ATM fees you're going
off to school you want to keep using
your home bank but your home bank is not
near the college campus and it's not
going to be where you're withdrawing
money from change your bank two dollars
a week adds up in a year three dollars
even in some cases get organized um I
know if a lot of you guys are just going
into college people are giving you you
know little gifts and stuff ask for a
small little file box keep all your
bills and all your paperwork in this
file box know what your obligations are
know what your paperwork says and also
the record-keeping can alleviate
disputes with other vendors even just as
simple as an electric bill or something
like that use student discounts where
you can and just overall keep your life
in balance have fun college is fun I
want to go back but you also have to
know why you're there it's almost like
how many of you guys have heard of the
game I used to play it when I was
younger and mash anybody raising hands
and you may play mash so you play mass
you decide I want a piece of paper with
your friends do I want to live in a
mansion an apartment a shack a house do
I want to have a Lamborghini your
mercedes-benz a Chevy or a Volvo or you
know a Volkswagen you decide these
things on a piece of paper and you put
numbers down and you figure out what
you're going to end up doing I'm going
to be married to George and we're going
to live in an apartment and we're going
to have a Lamborghini we're going to
have five kids that sort of thing comes
out into this play your own game with
your heart in your head while you're in
school I get out of college I'm going to
have a goal for myself I want to be
married one day I want to have kids one
day I want to have a great career and I
want other people to maybe look up to me
I come from a family who my brother and
I are the first to ever go through
college it was great to have that
feeling that our parents and our
grandparents could look up to us and say
wow you figured it out you figured out
how to do it and you went and did it in
our heads we had the idea that we wanted
this goal so what do you expect once you
do get out of college that hands out
that was passed that was ever did
everybody get a copy raise your hand if
you didn't get a copy and will they
still have a some more in the back this
handout gives you an idea of what a pay
stub looks like and what a small budget
looks like and this is pretty a good
example for may be right out of college
first job the annual salary on this pay
stub is 28 thousand eight hundred
dollars and there's a small budget at
the top with how much an apartment a car
payment and car insurance and the
utilities and stuff like that link costs
the best example this pay stub that I
want to point out to you is it looks
like this is the taxes the Social
Security health insurance all these
things come out of your paycheck that
you may not be thinking of so yeah your
salary is 28 8 but what you get per
month is not 2400 it's 1600 I don't know
if any of you guys ever watched the TV
show friends but the character Rachel
came from you know married to a dentist
and she never had to work and she
finally be she gets split up from this
guy and she gets a job at a coffee shop
and she gets her first paycheck and
she's so excited and she says who is
spike gun why are they taking all my
money well you have to understand at
that you know that's that's what's going
to happen to you that you've got yours
better on your state taxes and then you
also we're going to start having to pay
health insurance
of your paycheck as well these are all
actually great things you're independent
you're doing you're paying your
obligations and at the same time you're
getting a good sense of self you're no
longer on your parents health insurance
you've got to have to start paying for
that sort of thing yourself another
thing that's not on the sheet that you
will have to start thinking about when
you got out of school and you're
starting to paycheck as your 401k you
know there's always debate whether
social security is still going to be
here not when we get out of school when
we I mean when we get older 401 K is one
of the greatest tools that you can have
these things are pre-tax meaning it
comes out of your paycheck before your
tax gets hit from your paycheck so say
this to this check is 2400 dollars
before they calculate text tax on the 24
hundred dollars they take out your
health insurance dental insurance if you
have it and your 401k and then they
calculate tax that's what pre-tax means
so anything pre-tax that you can get out
of your pay stub is great because you're
not being taxed on it so when you sign
up for 401 K and you want to start that
out of school it's a great thing to do
it gets you rolling for even greater
future because who wants to work when
they're 80 because by the time we get up
there that's probably going to move
retirement age from 60 to 80 I wouldn't
be surprised so think about these things
they're very important and there's also
some other real life and this copy of
this budget is not only um get it
through the maryland department of
licensing and labor and licensing the
website for that is actually at the very
bottom of the chart but also a website
set called be what i want to be calm at
the bottom of this page is also a great
example of different occupations in the
state of maryland what type of education
you need to get into that occupation
what the average salary is for that
occupation and how many
vinings there may be in the year 2016
this is a great tool because as you're
sitting here thinking about maybe what
major to you know really pursue you can
think about what's really going to be
open because as I look down this list
there's a real need for nurses
registered nurses you get your RN looks
like you could probably be employed
right out of college because there's
going to be a need actually there's a
high need right now I have quite a
number of friends to our nurses there's
also going to be a huge need for school
teachers so keep an eye on this see it's
a good tool to use think about your
occupation and what it might what your
salary might say um and kind of wrap
things up just a little bit about myself
I was in your office position I didn't
you know how parent I didn't have
parents that we're paying for my college
education we couldn't afford it I went
out my god scholarships i got a us
Direct Loan i'm like i said i just paid
that off last year i chose to pay it in
ten years with it was a great choice for
me because i knew my salary as an
accountant would grow as long as I kept
pushing and urging my career to grow and
I would be able to pay it off in 10
years that's also plus because then I'm
paying less interest so a sixteen
thousand dollar loan will end up being
twenty thousand dollars at the end of
the day with interest rather than twenty
five thousand dollars at the end of the
day interest to keep your eye on that
sort of thing as well I've alone say you
also have a car loan when you get out of
school and you have a little bit of
extra cash you say you know what I want
to get rid of some of this debt maybe
I'll pay down my student loan first stop
right there which loan has the cheapest
interest rate I let my student loan go
until it was done because the interest
rate was so low I couldn't get that
money loaned to me at any cheaper
interest rate where my car loans were a
little bit more expensive so any extra
money I may have had I put it towards
the car loan instead when you do that if
you do
extra money you want to put towards
alone and pay down debt um when you do
it call and say I want to put this money
towards principle because if you just
send them a check with the extra money
they're going to put it towards interest
first you make your regular payment and
send them extra money supply this to the
principal please because then you know
less interest accruing on the principal
it's just a little tip so I was in your
seat before I didn't always have very
good conscious of you know keeping my
self contained i lived at the beach I
got a bunch of money waiting tables and
I went out and bought a surfboard did I
need a surfboard know was that kind of
silly of me absolutely I look back on it
now and like I have this surfboard
sitting in my house that never gets used
and just collects dust and it's really
silly but I was there and I did it and I
went and I had fun but just try to
remember listen to that voice inside
your head that says later in life maybe
I want to have the house and the family
and the kids in a great career that I
can you know pass down life to my next
generation so again just be yourself but
keep that level of ethics and entertain
yourself with what you want to do after
college and where you want to be and how
you perceive yourself and all of these
other things will fall into place
because you'll start asking yourself as
you go out and you do things do I need
that do I want that will that help me to
this end goal that I have that's it
you have any questions for me yes all
right
oh ok ok she's having a hard time
signing onto that website with a
checkbook balancing so i will see if i
can see her afterwards our students
exempt from FICA I don't believe so I
mean I wasn't when I was it now I was
day I never heard of anything but maybe
something has changed but you still have
to pay your taxes you still have to send
in a tax return as long as you're not
legally a dependent on somebody else's
tax return so make sure you do that too
if you're not filing a tax return you
think that you're not a dependent on
somebody else's you still need to do
that some certain work-study programs
are exempt from FICA so you maybe have
to ask the leader of those programs if
you're exempt
okay so she's saying that she did see
somewhere about what it's about 10 years
ago that there was some kind of
exemption and she did try to get it but
at the end of the day never could end up
getting it with writing letters and
stuff I have never heard of it however
I'm not in tax time actually an audit so
unfortunately I might not be the best
person to ask but it may be out there
yes in the light
um they say in a regular household now
this wouldn't apply to a student but in
a regular household you should keep
three months salary saved for
emergencies now that would also include
a mortgage so none of that would really
apply to a student so I mean you may
just want to have one extra month's
income at least put away because I know
your incomes like really not going to be
much of anything your savings is not
going to be much of anything I think
there were times where I maybe had five
dollars in my checking and savings
account just because that was the
balance that I had to have to keep you
count steady but do you try if you can
to have some kind of savings I mean just
last week my refrigerator broke and as a
thousand dollars and I'm like wait can't
afford that I'm taking two kids to
Disney World on Sunday and I don't know
I saved up for that so um anybody else
have any other question yeah
yes cuz he says don't take no just like
my example of calling a credit card
company and getting your interest rate
reduced push them don't say no say okay
I'll go to somebody else they may call
you back they may you know put you on
hold and then figure out what you want
but don't don't take no I mean I just
was helping somebody two days ago who
her now husband in college took out a
loan the interest rate was twenty five
percent that out of a hundred dollars
that's $25 of every hundred dollars they
now are looking to buy a house and that
loan is out there because they just
can't get it paid down because the
interest rate is so high and now it's
affecting them years later it should
have been paid off it was five six years
ago but now it's affecting them in
getting their home because they can't
get this debt paid off and it's such a
high interest rate that the bank the
mortgage lender is looking at them like
you've got to have this paid off but
that eleven thousand dollar loan turned
into twenty thousand dollar loan within
just a couple years very quickly anybody
else okay well thank you guys for your
time and you can definitely see me
afterwards so you have any questions